[Music]
trying to
hang on to the land as an
african-american land asset
that is dedicated to preserving
african-american owned land a people
with no land
is a people with no future no leverage
point no equity
this is an equity issue and we found
that one of the most effective ways to
address the trauma
is to help our folks understand that our
relationship to land goes back
thousands of years before land-based
oppression
so there is certainly a returning
generation of farmers who are excited to
reclaim the proud legacy of our
grandparents and great grandparents as
stewards of the land
the problem is that there isn't enough
training there is not enough capital and
there's not enough land there's not
enough capital and there's not enough
land
the susu healing collective's mission is
community reciprocity for the healing
affirming and liberation of black
indigenous people of color
ultimately what we're talking about is
land access ultimately what we're
talking about
is land access the way forward is this
project with anti-colonial
liberation but we know that deliveries
from all colonized people
so we need those funds to keep coming in
we appreciate the love and support but
keep it coming keep the donations coming
and if you're a carmax christian join
black panthers you can get in on all
this head
i'm just living in a river and on your
own freaking
this is something you should have access
to we see food and housing as birth
rights and not as commodities and so we
believe
that you shouldn't have to fight for
access to things that you need to
survive
big part of our program is to create a
space
where people of color can have access to
food
that is free what's happening to me
my heart is beating like a rabbits or a
wolf
[Music]
everything is whirling everything seems
strange
distant confusing
i hate you i hate this whole town and
everybody in it
i don't listen to my parents you get off
my back i hate my dad i hate this whole
lousy country
no i don't
i know who you are and i'm gonna tell
the world
you're a communist that's right eddie we
are
communists it's really beautiful to put
a black lives matter sign
on your lawn but it's even more powerful
to
let bypac lead to give us the space to
have the sovereignty and the agency to
make the decisions that we know
are going to have a significant impact
on our communities we're not really
going to address
the issues or or the topics of food
access
and racial justice without at least
exploring
rematriation efforts or being able to
turn the land back over native people
trusting in black people and native
people to be able to make decisions
to lead organizations hey white guy
are you ready to do reparations
specifically on me and my organization
the only way you can wash the blood off
your hands
is through following the leadership of
african indigenous and colonized people
and paying reparations for all that's
been stolen in your
name it's me ghazi the commander in
chief of the
black camera organization land back
i heard you had some not so nice things
to say about me
i heard you had so nice things to say
about my hammers
okay so apparently what is the black
hammer i don't know what this is is this
some like black israelite [ __ ] or
what is this yes uh everyone's talking
about black hammer we have got over 100
million
impressions around the world even more
than that it's
it's crazy but that's
what it means to be the vanguard ain't
nobody talking about the rest of them
i'm not even going to say their names
it's talking about you
you're the one the chosen
the one at the top the one with the belt
and the trophy
you feel me he has no idea that we're
using him
yes it's only a matter of time before
the youth
call excuse me before the youth of
america
will be in our clutches
this uh american imperialist economic
system is crumbling by the day
and y'all know to stock up
now and stock up fast we are not
american if you are
a a person on this land that we call
turtle island
you are not american you are either a
colonized person or a colonizer
we are the masses colonized people are
the true proletariat
of the world and we must unite on their
anti-colonial struggle
and move on forward towards liberation
and it will happen
because the conditions of today the
conditions of this colony are crumbling
and they're crumbling quicker than
anybody could have imagined
we don't even have to do any heavy
lifting anymore we just have to make
sure we are organizing our people
you should be building and maintaining
those bug out bags we've talked about as
well as ensuring that you're constantly
in a state
of preparedness as the world gets wilder
and more uncertain we
must grow more disciplined more
principled
and more prepared it's what we have to
do to ensure victory
and achieve our liberation that's right
eddie
we are communists but you'll never tell
[Music]
our political education is what we do at
every black camera meeting because we
continually fortify and steal ourselves
to become better revolutionaries we
don't not do this work
and artistically we do it with science
and study
that's what makes us the vanguard that's
what makes us the revolutionaries that
are going to overturn this contradiction
of colonialism we have a common goal and
that is to defeat colonialism
and to defeat the colonizer
stop stop you don't understand you're
communists
it's all part of the cognitive plot chay
level sign up for a single session of
the boot camp and get a view of the
experience and work it takes
in order to disunite with your people's
worldwide acts of genocide and terror
mao level at 199 dollars
minimum sign up for the entire eight
week boot camp and get fully certified
as someone who is
united under colonized leadership bro is
this literally a multi-level marketing
scheme created off of uh
white guilt they just think that like
delusional liberals are just gonna be
like
yeah i think this is the only way this
is the way that i can do it
so let them chat chat chat but they
the haters they've been chatting a lot
about our land
who is our greatest comrade mother earth
they've been hating on her they've been
saying that we can't live
on her we can't build on her we can't
thrive
on her oh lord
all the horrific lies they are saying to
slander
on our mother earth
but why would we expect anything less
from colonizers
who have polluted mother earth fracked
mother earth destroyed mother earth
and killed so many of her favorite
children
us colonized people around the world
have they gotten a single person i need
i need to know
they bought 200 acres with the donations
shut the [ __ ] up
build hammer city they have raised 64
000 so far dude they're calling us out
they they saying we can't do this and we
can't do that we can't farm
we're not going to feed ourselves we're
going to freeze to death how we're going
to keep ourselves warm in the mountains
don't you all already know it takes a
good book to burn on some nice wood
and best believe we have plenty of
copies to keep us warm all season long
this is scary dude at first i was gonna
laugh and joke about this but like i'm
kind of
scared they said anne frank is a
colonizer
bro this is not gonna end well dude we
gotta prove these colonizers wrong
we gotta show them they don't know
nothing about us and they don't know
nothing about our mother earth
we have to introduce the people to their
state apparatus
to their power and it is in black hammer
that the masses of poor working-class
colonized people
will find their power
and we're gonna do it we are building
y'all
a home dome it's a big structure that
can house
dozens of people that's going to have a
library in it
it's going to have dorms in it it's
going to have kitchens in it
it's going to have a dance flow i dare
i'll be i'mma be doing that don't you
wish your girlfriend was
hot like me and a homegrown [ __ ]
yes yes that's where we gonna live and
it's gonna be nice and heated through
the winter
and you know what else we're building
since they say we can't build
a farm since they say we can't make food
from the land
we about to build an underground
food forest liberating land building
power announcing a state
they want to build hammer city like a
commune
thanks to all of you black hammer has
successfully liberated 200 acres of land
to build our city
for colonized people only a good luck
crowdfunding segregation dude
as soon as an organization like this is
just like we're building a [ __ ]
commune
you know hit the hit the [ __ ]
parachute okay
y'all know every everyone's talking
about it we are
building hammer city in the mountains of
colorado
we got 200 acres of land with beautiful
soil beautiful
rivers amazing weather amazing plants
and animals
and we are fundraising for this project
we don't need to import we don't need to
take
the earth can provide everything that we
need now
and throughout the entire winter we will
be warm
we will be taken care of and we will be
safe there will be a terrace planting
area where comrades and children
will learn how to be in harmony with the
earth and take
care of plant life something that we've
been so far removed and disconnected
from
like i said this will be the center of
our city where we get to communicate
with each other and dream of the future
the science and technology committee
alongside the campaigns committee and
the economic development committee
is building working to build these
wallopini structures for us
in hammer city right now we're looking
at things like solar angles the slope of
the land the ventilation systems the
water collection systems
all of that we know we can do it and
that's power
we are dead serious about the liberation
of our people and we take this project
dead serious
because we know it's the difference
between our people starving on this land
and living to fight for liberation and
living to free our people
and living to free the animals and
living to free this earth
so we're dead serious and i'm gonna tell
you something else this earth
loves black hammer because she knows
that we are fighting for her i can't
tell you how many times
in my chapter we pulled up to outreach
when it was pouring rain and it stops
rain just long enough for us to pass out
masks and food to the people and then as
we're leaving it'll start raining again
it's time to go to war hammers we gotta
go to war
we gotta go to war with doubt we gotta
go to war with depression
we gotta go to war with self-hate
we gotta go to the war
of ideas the greatest war once you win
the war of ideas
you've won our wars and the way we go to
that war hammers
is by building we've got to build this
summer
we're going to be building this summer
and we're going to build fast
we are going to have the home zone
and the food forest done for our people
by the end of this summer and we will
show them videos and pictures
and i'm gonna hold up the basket of
produce
and i'm gonna laugh in that camera and
say how you like me now cracker
how you laughing now cracker and i'm
gonna say my people
this bounty is for you of service to you
our beautiful poor and working-class
colonized people
we are a service to you we love you you
are great you are powerful
watch us work for you and without
further ado i would like to
introduce to you something else we just
built our choir
[Applause]
[Music]
don't give me the colony
with a shell of thrill
but just give me a revolution
my life it can hold
i'd rather have freedom
than silver and gold
[Music]
2016 bernie sanders presidential
campaign
i had just graduated from college in
2014 and
i was starting out my career i was
wondering should i get more education
should i go to grad school or should i
just
start my career not get more education
i was paying for my own rent i was
paying for my own car insurance paying
for car repairs
i was living in an area that was not
very safe
one morning i woke up drove my car to
work and realized that something was
seriously wrong
when i took my car to get repaired
turned out somebody had tried to steal
my catalytic converter
i started really caring about crime in
my area i started
thinking more in political terms i
started watching more content on the
internet about politics although they
weren't the most refined
sources i started watching shows like
the jimmy dore show
i started caring more about progressive
ideas and politics i did not come from a
progressive family i did not come from a
left-wing family
i remember during bernie sanders
campaign i would hear from the
right-wing side of my family but he's a
socialist
i would say yeah he's a democratic
socialist so he cares about democracy
this is a good thing i didn't have this
negative connotation with
socialism that they did i thought that
socialism was good
i heard about socialist programs around
the world that were
positive you know instead of paying a
lot of money
to go to graduate school in other
countries some people didn't have to pay
that much to go to graduate school
this was something i could really get
behind with bernie sanders campaign and
i just
graduated from university not too long
ago and i knew that was really expensive
you know and that was expensive for all
the students that i graduated with there
were many reasons for me to get behind
bernie sanders campaign
in his 2016 presidential run and again
in 2020
i was in the detroit area i went to the
detroit rally in october
of 2019 saw jack white perform
it was very moving speech from bernie
sanders and i could feel this error in
the room
surrounded by people who cared about
bernie sanders campaign who cared about
progressive values
progressive ideals it wasn't lost on me
at that time that
bernie sanders was calling for a
revolution it's pretty obvious
in all of his campaigns and all of his
information on the internet a lot of it
talks about revolution pretty
openly when i was interested in bernie
sanders going into his 2016 presidential
campaign
i wasn't fully understanding the
implications of using that term
revolution i thought of it more
of a theatrical revolution something
that wasn't going to
result in the deaths of millions of
people
like the revolutions that have happened
in the past i wasn't thinking of it
of it in an historical framework and i
wasn't thinking that this might be the
price
that we could pay if there actually were
a revolution today
now in the years between his 2016 run
for president
and his 2020 run for president i learned
a lot about revolutions
around the world i read a book called
tombstone
this is about the great chinese famine
and this to me most of all taught me
that
ideology really matters ideology can
kill
millions of people politics really
matters
who is in power is of crucial importance
to the life and death of the citizens of
a country when
bernie sanders decided that he would
drop out of the race i was really
heartbroken
ideologically i felt a kinship toward
bernie sanders i felt that
of all the candidates he was going to be
the one that would lead to the most
change
that socially politically economically
there would be change in the country
if he were elected after bernie sanders
decided that he was going to drop out of
the race
i think supporters of bernie sanders
have had to come to the realization that
the next presidential election he
probably will just be too old to
run and that this is the start of the
end of his political career
however people still pay attention to
what bernie sanders says
i think he was the source of this
momentum in younger people to care about
politics to get involved
before that i think when obama was in
office
people of my generation didn't really
care about politics or didn't think that
they could have any impact on politics
that things would just continue as
they've always been
bernie sanders really did change the
political arena in america
before him nobody really talked about
universal health care
in the united states seriously nobody
took free college for all seriously as
something that
could actually happen in the united
states people still really respect
bernie sanders people still look at his
content online people look to him
for opinions about current conflicts so
he has a youtube channel
and among many many topics that he
uploads videos about
i have seen him upload videos about this
recent trend
this fervor toward the african-american
community wanting to get back to the
land
he's uploaded a few videos talking about
this issue interviews
of black farmers interviews from
people who have decided that the way
for black people to feel empowered in
the united states of america
is to get back to farming so if you
watch these videos you'll see that
bernie sanders is endorsing
these groups which are very
fundamentally pro-socialist
they have an ideology that's based on
ideas about collectivization
ideas about land being a birthright
that food is a birthright that we
shouldn't have to
work for food we shouldn't have to work
for land
that these things should come with being
a human being
additionally these organizations believe
that the
food grown on their land should be grown
by
black people and that it should only be
given to
black families they use this argument
that because some communities are food
insecure
that they should be providing some food
now
a sad statistic from one of these videos
was that
they were only able to give vegetable
baskets to 29 families
this isn't the totality of their food
it's just a small amount of vegetables
that they're able to
give to black families and most people
are not vegan most people are not
vegetarian so this is only supplementing
what is probably also purchased at the
grocery store
and is still feeding into this same
society this same marketplace that they
are really against they believe that
human beings shouldn't have to buy food
that this is something that
should just come from the land and that
this is for black people this is for
people of color this is for native
people
that native people don't have to buy
food that
food should just come from the land and
they're entitled to it
now these are the groups that bernie
sanders endorses but
there are some other groups that bernie
sanders has yet to endorse
a group like black hammer black hammer
is more
overtly communist they are pro maoist
they don't have this soft image of
socialism this
friendly image that some of these other
groups have
where it's about growing land to bring
people together
that instead this is a more radical
organization that they're going to take
over the land
that they deserve the land they're going
to make this land
only for colonized people for people of
color
and they're going to do it under the
ideology of marxism
of communism of maoist communism
has anybody in black hammer read this
book
tombstone this is a lengthy condemnation
of
the ideology that led to the deaths of
over 36 million people it may seem like
the most simple thing in the world
for human beings to live on the land to
dig up some dirt
plant seeds pour some water get sunlight
and grow food to live off the land
that this is what it really means to be
a human being
uh the other day the city that i live in
we're handing out seedlings
residents who live here could bring the
seedlings back to their homes back to
their apartment buildings
and plant them i spent all day getting
my hands dirty
digging through dirt with my hands i
didn't really have proper tools for this
and i planted seedlings maybe i will get
a pound of tomatoes from this really
once you
do the work of planting of growing some
food
you get to see how little you get from
the plants that you grow how difficult
it is
to cultivate the land how difficult it
is to
really understand how to grow food
you'll encounter some failures
you'll find that there's some mildew on
your
plants that has ruined the crop have you
heard of the jonestown massacre
this is an example of a very socialist
man jim jones who started a cult
and they moved to south america and it
ended in disaster
in jonestown they farmed their own food
they were living
on a commune they lived under this
ideology of communism
that if we can all work together nobody
has to live in a capitalist society that
we can all live in harmony
it didn't work because of the kind of
authoritarian communist government
all kinds of agricultural practices were
put into place in china
that left people starving to death
people
literally murdering their own children
and eating their own children
people were only allowed to grow food on
communal farms
people weren't allowed to grow plants in
their own backyard
and when the crops failed because of the
terrible practices that were being used
at the time
because of close cropping because of
digging
meters into the ground and planting
seeds there were all these ideas about
farming that were implemented at this
time
the crops failed people didn't have any
food people were resorting to eating
bugs
people were resorting to eating tree
bark or even clay
which literally had no nutritional value
some of these groups discussed food
scarcity in the united states
but i really think nobody in the united
states over the past 50 years has had to
deal with the kind of food scarcity
that was seen in communist china and in
other communist regimes around the world
now i actually am in favor of people
having the experience of growing their
own food because i think it gives you a
kind of
understanding of what it takes to grow
food
what it takes for the food that you are
able to buy from the grocery store
to get there you start to understand on
a massive scale how it is that you can
go to the grocery store
and buy fruits and vegetables at all
times the year whereas if you grow your
own food
you only get a harvest once a year
there's a good reason why
universities have departments for
agricultural studies
because even though it seems like the
most natural thing for human beings to
plant seeds and grow their own food it's
actually not as simple as
it seems many issues totally out of the
control of the farmer can result in crop
failure
so in this way i think it's important to
learn about how crops are grown
but also it makes it even more
of a tragedy that in these years in
china
the deaths of millions of people weren't
caused by drought they were caused by
these ideological problems
the way communism works it's not just
these figureheads in the government it's
everybody in the country is a member of
this communist
party so therefore everybody was
involved everybody was culpable
everybody had to prove how communist
they were to survive
and even if they did prove that they
were so communist they could still
die as a result of either famine or
a result of torture as a result of being
struggled in front of everyone in their
town part of what attracts young people
to bernie sanders is that he seems
radical he seems revolutionary compared
to
somebody like joe biden or somebody like
hillary clinton who seemed to be
more of the standard seem to be more of
the same what we've gotten in the
democratic party in the past 20 or 30
years
but this same revolutionary current can
be dangerous
and it can lead young people and i think
old people alike
into a movement into a kind of
revolution that they don't really
understand
where it comes from and the roots of
this revolution
the roots of this ideology i mean after
reading this book
it's unbelievable to me that mao zedong
is coming back into fashion
that people are saying they want to be a
part of an organization
that is maoist that is communist how can
they ignore
the failures of maoism this was the
worst famine
of all time in this book you'll read
terrible
terrible stories about how the famine
affected
a whole generation of people multiple
generations of people
and led to not only famine and
starvation for millions of people
but it led to a lowering in birth rate
i've lived in china and i didn't even
see this kind of fervor for mao zedong
from any of the chinese people
i think they are aware of this history
and they don't want to repeat it even
though they live
in a communist country they still have
all of the trappings of capitalism
they have a market economy they have a
stock market they're aware
of this history of the failure of
communes in the country and how it led
to mass starvation how it didn't work
how it was a complete disaster communism
is not an answer to
food insecurity in the united states if
anything it will lead to
more food insecurity and maybe outright
starvation
people might see this black hammer group
as a joke but
i'm going to take it seriously because i
see a trend happening in the western
world
that people are embracing communism that
they see it
not as a joke but it's become a part of
memes that people share online
some people see it as a joke but others
like this group black hammer they
take it deathly seriously they take it
as
something that they're going to risk
their lives for this ideology
and if i learned anything from tombstone
it's that you'll never be communist
enough
it doesn't matter how much you believe
in the ideology
they will still find ways to backstab
you communists will still find ways
to prove that you are not communist
enough all the kind of corruption
that we hear about in the american
government was just as bad in the
communist government
in china so i think that's part of the
attraction of bernie sanders that we
think
getting somebody who is revolutionary
will change some of this
terrible corruption in the government
but in reality if you
examine bernie sanders if you look at
some of his past
he actually was in favor of communist
dictatorships
he was at least sympathetic to russian
communism he was at least sympathetic to
communism in cuba he was also
sympathetic to communism in venezuela
given the option of donald trump or
bernie sanders i still think i would
vote for bernie sanders
however i do think that bernie sanders
has ignited this
spark in the united states that
although maybe you could find it in some
academic circles of people who were so
left-wing that they were pro-communists
before i think this has
taken it onto the public sphere i think
that more
more and more people are becoming
sympathetic to communism
let me ask you if you were bernie
sanders what do you have to gain
we've both seen the videos on bernie
sanders channel that's promoting this
cause and there's so much that's just
kind of weird and disturbing about them
but like what does he have to gain
you know
i really think it's part of this you can
never be left-wing enough even if you
have the support
of the black community it needs to be
the more
radical side of the black community it
needs to be
the people who want to start farms who
want to farm food
that's planted by black people to give
to other black people and this is seen
as heroism this is seen as a
positive thing it's not really about
equality it's about
rematriation that's one of the terms
that they use repatriation
it's about being the most woke
candidate possible bernie sanders
campaign was exciting because it seemed
like this was the future
that this was what was going to motivate
the next generation to care about
politics
but i ask you is this where we're headed
imitating communist china in the 1950s
and 60s
is this the future of the united states
of america are black communists going to
take over all the farmland
is this where we're headed this is just
the beginning 200 acres of land and how
much of the world that we need to
liberate
exactly we definitely are working hard
hard hard to make sure
all our projects are coming into
fruition but we know that the liberation
of all colonoscopies will come easy and
then they go come cheap
the land appears on industry and let's
get to it